JUDY WOODRUFF: From North
Korea today, new defiance.
The communist regime's leader,
Kim Jong-un, insisted that
he will never negotiate away
his missile and
nuclear programs.
But the world's highest
diplomatic body held
an emergency session
on how to get the North
to do just that.
Correspondent Nick Schifrin
begins our coverage.
NICK SCHIFRIN: This afternoon
in the U.N. Security Council,
the U.S. tried to rally
the world to punish and
isolate North Korea.
NIKKI HALEY, U.S. Ambassador
to the United Nations: It is a
dark day, because yesterday's
actions by North Korea made the
world a more dangerous place.
NICK SCHIFRIN: U.S. Ambassador
Nikki Haley said North Korea's
test of an intercontinental
ballistic missile requires
a global response.
NIKKI HALEY: They have
not had any care for
Russia or China in this.
They have not listened to
anything that you have said.
They're not going to listen
to anything that you say.
And so it's time that we all
stand together and say, we will
not put up with this action.
NICK SCHIFRIN: Haley is trying
to lead a diplomatic effort to
change North Korean behavior.
The U.S. needs Chinese and
Russian help, but Beijing and
Moscow have their own strategy.
VLADIMIR SAFRONKOV, Deputy
Russian Ambassador to the United
Nations (through translator):
We call for all interested
states to act with restraint,
rather than provocation
and war-mongering.
LIU JIEYI, Chinese Ambassador
to the United Nations (through
translator): We call on all
the concerned parties
to exercise restraint,
avoid provocative
actions and belligerent
rhetoric, and demonstrate the
will for unconditional dialogue.
NICK SCHIFRIN: Tuesday's
missile launch crossed
the intercontinental
threshold the U.S. had
been hoping to prevent.
In science terms, the missile
advance was an incremental,
but U.S. officials tell the
"NewsHour" it was in a new,
previously unseen configuration.
It was fired from a mobile
launcher, had a reentry vehicle,
and was two-stage, as seen
on North Korean TV.
The immediate American
response was its own launch.
The U.S. and South
Korean militaries fired
tactical missiles today
that can be rapidly
deployed.
And South Korea released a
video of what an attack on North
Korea would look like, blowing
up North Korean missiles, and
video game graphics of a South
Korean jet bombing Pyongyang.
But, as of now, the focus is
very much on diplomacy and
increasing pressure on North
Korea.
Secretary of State Rex Tillerson
released a statement hours
after the missile launch,
saying any country that helps
North Korea is aiding and
abetting a dangerous regime,
and that all countries that
all countries must show North
Korea there are consequences
to their pursuit
of nuclear weapons.
In a tweet this morning,
President Trump expressed
frustration that China
hasn't done more, writing:
"So much for China
working with us.
But we had to give it a try."
So, the administration
is casting a wide net.
Today, Mr. Trump talked with
Egyptian President Abdel
Fattah El-Sisi by phone.
North Korea sells missile
technology and receives
remittances from Africa
to Southeast Asia.
To try and stop that income,
today, the U.S. delivered a
threat to China and others.
NIKKI HALEY: There are countries
that are allowing, even
encouraging, trade with North
Korea, in violation of U.N.
Security Council resolutions.
Such countries would
also like to continue
their trade arrangements
with the United States.
That's not going to happen.
NICK SCHIFRIN: The U.S. military
in South Korea says it is being
-- quote -- "self-restrained."
That policy will remain until
the diplomacy plays out.
For the "PBS NewsHour,"
I'm Nick Schifrin.
JUDY WOODRUFF: We will take a
detailed look at the question
of sanctions and North Korea
right after the news summary.